We install git on a local machine in some steps:

>> For Windows:

1. Visit the official Git website (https://git-scm.com/) and download the Windows version of Git.

2. Run the downloaded installer.

3. Follow the on-screen instructions, reviewing the license agreement and choosing the installation location.

4. Select the components you want to install, and choose your preferred text editor.

5. Choose the default branch name and adjust other settings as desired.

6. Select the option to use Git from the command line and third-party software.

7. Choose the HTTPS transport backend and line ending conversions options.

8. Choose your preferred terminal emulator or the default Git Bash.

9. Complete the installation process and launch Git Bash.

10. Verify the installation by opening the command prompt and running the command: git --version.

11. That's it! Git should now be installed and ready to use on your Windows machine.



>> For Linux (Ubuntu-based distributions):

1. Open a terminal window by pressing "Ctrl + Alt + T" together.

2. Run the following command to install Git: 
                                              sudo apt update
                                              sudo apt install git

3. The system may prompt you to enter your password. Type your password and press Enter.

4. The package manager will download and install Git along with its dependencies.

5. After the installation is complete, you can verify the installation by running the following command: git --version

6. if Git is installed correctly, you will see the installed version displayed in the terminal.



>> For Mac:

1. Here are the summarized steps to install Git on macOS:

2. Visit the official Git website (https://git-scm.com/) and download the macOS version of Git.

3. Open the downloaded DMG file.

4. Double-click on the package file (ending in .pkg) to start the installation process.

5. Follow the instructions in the installer, reviewing the license agreement and providing your username and password if required.

6. Complete the installation process.

7. Open the Terminal application.

8. Verify the installation by running the command: git --version.

9. That's it! Git should now be installed and ready to use on your Mac.



Now! Git should now be successfully installed on your local machine, regardless of the operating system you are using.

